ACCROCHE : I'm very please to share the video of Avenirs Energétiques's latest workshop with Sharon Wilson about gas exploitation and raw methane leaks/emissions.
DATE     : 2025-06-11
URL      : https://www.linkedin.com/posts/arthur-de-lassus_im-very-please-to-share-the-video-of-avenirs-activity-7338497873396858880-C-ye
LIKES    : 14
COMMENT. : 3
IMAGE    : Images/posts/7338497873396858880.jpg
CATEG.   : Médias & vulgarisation / Énergie

------------------------------------------------------------------------

I'm very please to share the video of Avenirs Energétiques's latest workshop with Sharon Wilson about gas exploitation and raw methane leaks/emissions.



Methane emissions is a major topic: the International Energy Agency (IEA) estimates that cutting these emissions by 75% by 2030 is vital to reach our climate targets. But where do these emissions come from, and why do we have them?



Sharon has been gathering data and filming methane emissions with her optical gas camera for the past 12 years - and documenting O&G impacts for the past 20 years.



If you want to see the full life cycle of gas, from shale wells to regasification terminals, and understand what fracking, or flaring, mean, you have to see this video. It's simply amazing, you'll see all the steps filmed, together with their methane emissions



Few take-aways



▪Forget calling these emissions leaks: real leaks represent only 6% of total emissions. They come in fact from technical constraints as you need to vent the gas for different reasons



▪While there are indeed technological improvements, the US O&G industry works like your average car workshop in the country side. For years, the industry has been fighting against any kind of regulations, has been disclosing incorrect data about its emissions and massively polluting. Today you have hundreds of thousands of abandoned wells in the US which have to be treated. It's chaos



▪Gas shales are located literally in the middle of cities - I didn't know that and it's really impressive



 ▪We discuss the pro and cons of flaring vs raw methane emissions: either you have CO2 emissions released or harmful gas + methane which has a shorter life time in a atmosphere but >80x the greenhouse effect compared to CO2



This chaos is confirmed by the data: the US is by far the n°1 emitter of methane, with Russia the 2nd emitter, and the rest is 50% less or way below.



With close to no regulation, and with subsidies received for decades to build our existing infrastructures, it's no surprise that fossil fuel were cheap. After watching the video, you'll see how the IMF report about fossil fuel subsidies (which have now reached 7 trillions/y globally) is on point.



It's high time we turn this page of our industrial history. One of the challenges is jobs: the O&G industry, like coal before, has many workers. There are a lot of skills in this industry which can be used in many exciting ways and fuel the growth of low carbon technologies: offshore wind, geothermal, floating solar, C&I, onshore wind, solar, hydrogen, SAF.



Altogether, by 2050 the energy sector should provide MORE jobs than what we have today.



https://lnkd.in/eyS5cU9h
